<h1>Hacking On Tir</h1>

This is organized more like a FAQ than a guide, but it gives all the information
you probably need to hack on the Tir source code.  It talks about getting the
code, doing your first patch, coding guidelines, etc.  These aren't meant to be strict
rules but more guidelines to follow.

<h2>I want to hack on Tir.  How do I join?</h2>

To get in on Tir you have to prove you can write code by writing some
code doing this:

  *  Follow the instructions in this document and get your source from fossil and turn <b>off</b> autosync.
  *  Commit your changes to your repository when you think they're good.
  *  Then go find <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/rptview?rn=2">a ticket to do</a> and write code to fix it.
  *  Join the <a href="mailto:mongrel2@librelist.com">mongrel2@librelist.com</a> mailing list or join #mongrel2 on irc.freenode.org where we discuss Tir.
  *  Put your tir.fossil repository on a server and do a <b>fossil serve tir.fossil</b> so we can pull from it.
  *  Finally, one of us will check out your changes and see if they're good to pull.  If they are, and you want to get into the project, then just fix a few more bugs and we'll let you in.


Each of these steps is documented in this document, so just read it real quick and get a
good understanding of the project before you continue.


<h2>How do I get the source code?</h2>

To get the source, first you need to go to <a
href="http://www.fossil-scm.org/download.html">fossil downloads</a> and
download a static binary for your platform.<b>DO NOT INSTALL THE fossil PACKAGE
FROM YOUR OS AS IT IS PROBABLY WRONG. DEBIAN ESPECIALLY!!!!!</b>

Next do this:

<pre>
mkdir ~/fossils
fossil clone http://tir.mongrel2.org:44446/ ~/fossils/tir.fossil
mkdir -p ~/projects/tir
cd ~/projects/tir
fossil open ~/fossils/tir.fossil
fossil set autosync off
</pre>


<h2>How do I find things to do?</h2>

We have a tickets system built into the fossil DVCS that you can access.  You
can get <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/rptview?rn=2">a ticket to do</a> and
write code to fix it.  Obviously, you'll have to probably <a
href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/login">anonymous login</a> first if you want to
do very much.</a>


<h2>Why can't I just access everything without logging in?</h2>

We want to avoid spam and bots trolling our system and thrashing it or leaving junk around, so we
have a simple <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/login">anonymous login</a> captcha you can use.  It's a
minor inconvenience that helps us out a lot.  It also weeds out people who aren't smart enough or motivated
enough to actually help.


<h2>How do I make a change?</h2>

fossil works like most version control systems in that you make your changes
and "commit" them.  With <b>fossil set autosync off</b> it means you're working
more like git or hg and are decentralized.  With autosync on it's more like
subversion and you have to have network access and it makes sure you have the
latest before you can commit.

Since you are probably not a committer yet, you just have to do this:


  *  Edit the files you need and write a test if you can.
  *  Use <b>fossil st</b> to make sure you are only changing what you think you are changing.
  *  Use <b>fossil up</b> to make sure you're on the latest.
  *  Use <b>fossil leaves</b> to make sure you didn't make an extra leaf and need to merge.
  *  Then <b>fossil commit -m "SOME MESSAGE ABOUT WHY."</b> and you're done.


After you do this you just have to serve your repository to a core contributor and
they can pull your changes.

<h2>How do I serve my repository</h2>

It's pretty easy since fossil has a built-in full web server that will serve
your changes.  You just do this:

<pre>
rsync -azv ~/fossils/tir.fossil YOU@yourserver.com:
ssh YOU@yourserver.com
fossil serve tir.fossil
</pre>

Fossil should now be running at <b>http://yourserver.com:8080/</b> or a 
similar port (if it doesn't tell you the port number then it's 8080).  You can
go to it with your browser and make sure that it's good.

If you're in your source directory on that remote server, then you can just
type <b>fossil serve</b> and you're done.

<h2>Can I push to my own repository that I just served?</h2>

Definitely.  If you want to do that, it'll make your life a lot easier.
All you do is from <b>your</b> local machine:

<pre>
fossil set autosync on
fossil remote-url http://YOU@yourserver.com:8080/
</pre>

It will then prompt you for a password which you should have setup when
you cloned your fossil repository.  If you forgot you can change it on the
remote machine with </b>fossil user -R tir.fossil YOU password</b>.

This tells your local fossil to use your remote fossil as the place
to commit changes. Incidentally, that's the same thing you do for
getting changes into mongrel2.org.


<h2>I forgot my password, how do I set it?</h2>

Use <b>fossil user -R tir.fossil YOU password</b> and it'll ask you for
a new one.  You don't need the -R if you are in your source directory.


<h2>I just became a committer, how do I setup to make changes to mongrel2.org?</h2>

We use autosync in fossil in order to keep everyone straight with
the source and reduce management overhead.  Once you get your account
on mongrel2.org you just need to flip your repository into "contributor
mode" by turning on autosync and setting the remote-url:

<pre>
cd ~/projects/mongrel2
fossil set autosync on
fossil remote-url http://YOU@tir.mongrel2.org:44446/
</pre>

It will then prompt you for a password which you should have setup when
you were given your account.


<h2>Why do committers need to keep autosync on?</h2>

I don't think of source control as a "code backup system", but rather as a 
"code chat system".  When you commit you are sharing your code with everyone 
else, and turning autosync off is like constantly talking out of turn.  With autosync
on you are forced to keep your repository up to date before you commit, thus avoiding
a lot of merge problems, bad code, and hurt feelings.



<h2>If I become a contributor how do I get mentioned?</h2>

Everyone who submits a change using this method will have their username mentioned
in the <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/timeline">timeline</a> even if you're not
registered as a core contributor.

Core contributors get mentioned on the <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/home">home</a> page.

After you become a contributor you then are thrown bags of money and caviar.


<h2>How do you prioritize what to work on?</h2>

We usually have a discussion on the <a href="mailto:mongrel2@librelist.com">mongrel2@librelist.com mailing list</a>
to figure out what to do next.  Then we fill in the <a href="http://tir.mongrel2.org/reportlist">tickets</a>
with the stuff to do.  Then we do that stuff.


<h2>Who comes up with the vision and direction?</h2>

Usually it's Zed, who wrote the majority of the content for this site.


<h2>What will get my contribution rejected?</h2>

Generally if your change adds too much code, is poorly written, doesn't work
on multiple UNIX platforms, or doesn't have testing when it needs it.  Don't worry
though, we'll tell you how to clean it up and make it nice so that you learn
good style.  As a starting point, here's what we consider our style guide: 

<h2>What is your style guide?</h2>

I'm not as familiar with Lua as I am with C, so here's my generic guidelines:

  *  Keep it small. There's no limit but the point of Tir is that you don't need much code.
  *  Keep your code clean and "flatter" with good use of white space for readability.
  *  Refactor common blocks of code or complex branches into functions, probably "static inline" is good.
  *  Aim for lines around 80 characters if possible.
  *  When in doubt, read and re-read the man page for function calls to make sure you got the error returns and parameters right.

In general the theme for Tir source is, "Don't code like an asshole."  If you write a piece of
code and you didn't consider how another person will use it, or just didn't care, then it'll probably
get rejected.


<h2>How do I learn more about Tir?</h2>

Check out [GettingStarted] for the introduction.

<h2>How do I see what's been changed on a file or view a diff?</h2>

After you log in you can use the <a href="/timeline?n=20&y=ci">timeline checkins only</a> to see the list of changes.  Then you pick one and there's various diffing
options.

To see how a file changed, browse for the file in <a href="/dir">in Files</a> and 
find the one you want to look at.  You can then do advanced change logging and diffing
of that file.

The general way fossil works is that you get a lot of features from the command line,
but complex operations like analyzing diffs is better done in the Web GUI.  You can get
to your own web GUI any time by doing <b>fossil ui</b> or <b>fossil serve</b>.


