<h1>Installing Tir</h1>

This document is still a rough install guide, so you may have to wiggle the instructions to fit your particular system.  They also do <b>not</b> work on Windows.  Don't even bother.

<h1>Pre-Requisites</h1>

Obviously, you'll need to <a href="http://mongrel2.org/wiki?name=GettingStarted">Install Mongrel2</a> first.

You'll also need the following:

  #  <a href="http://lua.org">Lua 5.1</a>
  #  <a href="http://luarocks.org/">LuaRocks</a>
  #  Make sure you can build extensions for Lua.

<h1>Installing Tir</h1>

Because of the way a LuaRocks handles some types of dependencies you have to run these commands to get Tir installed the first time:

<verbatim>
# go some place safe
cd /tmp

# become root (watch out!)
sudo bash

# install dependencies from git and places
luarocks install lua_signal
curl -O https://github.com/iamaleksey/lua-zmq/raw/master/rockspecs/lua-zmq-scm-0.rockspec
luarocks install lua-zmq-scm-0.rockspec
curl -O https://github.com/jsimmons/mongrel2-lua/raw/master/rockspecs/mongrel2-lua-scm-0.rockspec
luarocks install mongrel2-lua-scm-0.rockspec

# install tir
luarocks install http://tir.mongrel2.org/downloads/tir-0.9-1.rockspec

# stop being root
exit
</verbatim>

<b>NOTE:</b> This set of instructions should be one single command that just installs the Tir rockspec.  If you know how to make that happen let me know.


<h1>Testing</h1>

After that you should be able to do this:

<verbatim>
$ tir
ERROR: that's not a valid command
USAGE: tir <command> <options>
$ tir help
AVAILABLE COMMANDS:
test
help
start
</verbatim>

<h1>More Documentation</h1>

After you have Tir installed you probably want to read the [GettingStarted] document.

If you want to work on Tir then read the [ContributorInstructions] document.


